=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

libperl++ - Function and method calling

=head1 VERSION

This documentation refers to libperl++ version 0.0.48

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	#Something

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document described how to call and define functions.

=head1 CALLING NAMED FUNCTIONS

You can call functions simply by using the C<call> method on L<Interpreter>.

 universe.call("do_something", 1, "foobar");

You can call a function in list context using C<call_list>

 universe.call_list("do_something", 1, "foobar");

=head1 CALLING SUBREFS

You can call any subref using the C<() operator>.

 subref(1, "foobar");

You can call it in list context using the C<list> method

 subref.list(1, "foobar");

=head1 CALLING METHODS

You can call a method on any object using the C<call> and C<call_list> methods.

 object.call("method", 1, "foobar");

=head1 ACCEPTABLE ARGUMENTS

libperl++ knows how to deal with arguments and return values of its own data types (scalars, arrays, hashes) as wel as numeric types (integral and floating point) and most string types (C<const char*>, C<std::string>). You can use user defined types but this requires that you define the conversions.

=head2 CUSTOM CONVERSIONS

You can define some custom conversion by specializing C<< perl::typecasts::typename<T> >> for your type. You can define two methods:

=head3 Casting to your type

For this you need to define one class method:

=over 2

=item * T cast_to(scalar) should be defined.

This class method casts a L<Scalar> to your type T. How you implement this is entirely up yo you, but it must satisfy the following demands:

=over 2

=item * It must either return value of type T, or something that coerces to a value of type T

=item * It must accept a Scalar::Temp rvalue. It may accept a Scalar::Base references too.

=back

=back

=head3 Casting from your type to a Scalar

For this you need to define two things:

=over 2

=item * from_type should be typedefed to boost::true_type.

=item * const U cast_from(Interpreter&, T&)

=over 2

=item * It may return a value of any type it wants, as long it satisfies one of these ...

=over 2

=item * A libperl++ value type (Scalar, Array, etc…)

=item * A type libperl++ natively knows to convert into a libperl++ type (int, std::string)

=item * A type other than T for which you've defined a typemap to convert it into a libperl++ type.

=back

=item * It must accept a value of T

=back

=back

 namespace perl {
     namespace typecast {
         template<> struct typemap {
             
         }
     }
 }

Note that you can use partial template specialization and SFINAE. For SFINAE there is the helper meta-function is_pushable<>. This is done by default for std::vector and std::pair, so both can be used as an argument or return for any T that libperl++ knows about.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Typecasting tries to do as much as possible during compiletime. These compiletime errors are compiler specific though.

=head1 AUTHOR

Leon Timmermans (fawaka@gmail.com)

=cut
