=pod

=head1 NAME

libperl++ - 

=head1 VERSION

This documentation refers to libperl++ version 0.0.48

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	#Something

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Interpreter class is the central point of this library. From it you can derive all other values you need.

=head1 ACCESSING PERL FROM C++

=head2 EVALUATING

One method to get things quickly is to use evaluations. You can evaluate string using the C<eval> and C<eval_list> methods. These functions return a scalar and an array respectively. They 

	bool success = universe.eval("print qq{Hello World\n}");

=head2 LOADING MODULES

You can use modules using the use method. The first argument is the module name, the second and optional command is the minimal version of the module.

	universe.use("Carp", 1.000);

=head2 USING VARIABLES

You can access package variables using the C<scalar>, C<array> and C<hash> methods. These functions return an lvalue that can be assigned to.

	Array data = universe.array("Module::data");
	universe.scalar("status") = 404;
	universe.hash("table").exists("hello");

=head2 CALLING FUNCTIONS

You call call functions using the call function. Call will accept all primitive types libperl++ can convert into a scalar, but also user defined types with a suitable conversion function as specified in L<Functions>.

	universe.call(method_name, arguments);

=head2 CONVERTING INTO SCALARS

Interpreter has a series of value_of methods that can convert many native types (such as integers and doubles) and strings into Perl scalars.

	String foo = universe.value_of("foo ");

=head1 ACCESSING C++ FROM PERL

=head2 EXPORTING FUNCTIONS

Functions can be exported using the add method of Interpreter.

	int some_function(const char*);
	//...
	universe.add("some_function", some_function);
	universe.call("some_function", "hello world");

libperl++ will automatically convert scalars from and to native numbers and std::strings. If needed you can define your own conversion operators as explained in L<Functions>.

=head2 EXPORTING METHODS

Let's take this class

	struct player {
		string get_name() const;
		pair<int, int> get_position() const;
		void set_position(pair<int, int>);

		double get_strength() const;
		void set_strength(double);
		void die(string);
	};

The class can be exported like this.

	Class<player> player_class = universe.add_class("Player");
	player_class.add("get_name", &player::get_name);
	player_class.add("get_position", &player::get_position);
	player_class.add("set_position", &player::set_position);
	player_class.add("get_strength", &player::get_strength);
	player_class.add("set_strength", &player::set_strength);
	player_class.add("die", &player::die);

=head1 ADVANCED

=head2 BINDS

Binds are a two way link between a Perl and a C++ variable. Changes to the one will affect the other and vice-versa.

=head1 AUTHOR

Leon Timmermans (fawaka@gmail.com)

=cut
