=pod

=head1 NAME

libperl++

=head1 VERSION

This documentation refers to libperl++ version 0.0.48


=head1 SYNOPSIS

	Interpreter universe;
	Package dbi = universe.use("DBI");
	Ref<Hash> foo = dbi.call("connect", "dbi:SQLite:dbname=dbfile", "", "");
	Array bar = foo.call_array("selectrow_array", "SELECT * FROM test WHERE name = ?", universe.undef(), "a");

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides an interface to the perl API.

=head1 SUBROUTINES/METHODS

A separate section listing the public components of the module's interface.
These normally consist of either subroutines that may be exported, or methods
that may be called on objects belonging to the classes that the module provides.
Name the section accordingly.

In an object-oriented module, this section should begin with a sentence of the
form "An object of this class represents...", to give the reader a high-level
context to help them understand the methods that are subsequently described.


=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

A list of every error and warning message that the module can generate
(even the ones that will "never happen"), with a full explanation of each
problem, one or more likely causes, and any suggested remedies.
(See also "Documenting Errors" in Chapter 13.)

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

A full explanation of any configuration system(s) used by the module,
including the names and locations of any configuration files, and the
meaning of any environment variables or properties that can be set. These
descriptions must also include details of any configuration language used.
(See also "Configuration Files" in Chapter 19.)


=head1 DEPENDENCIES

A list of all the other modules that this module relies upon, including any
restrictions on versions, and an indication of whether these required modules are
part of the standard Perl distribution, part of the module's distribution,
or must be installed separately.


=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

A list of any modules that this module cannot be used in conjunction with.
This may be due to name conflicts in the interface, or competition for
system or program resources, or due to internal limitations of Perl
(for example, many modules that use source code filters are mutually
incompatible).


=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

A list of known problems with the module, together with some indication of
whether they are likely to be fixed in an upcoming release.

Also a list of restrictions on the features the module does provide:
data types that cannot be handled, performance issues and the circumstances
in which they may arise, practical limitations on the size of data sets,
special cases that are not (yet) handled, etc.

The initial template usually just has:

There are no known bugs in this module.
Please report problems to <Maintainer name(s)>  (<contact address>)
Patches are welcome.

=head1 AUTHOR

Leon Timmermans (fawaka@gmail.com)

=cut
